Change log updates for 0.27.0 release (#3213)
QCoDeS/Qcodes: docs/changes/0.27.0.rst

Changelog for QCoDeS 0.27.0
===========================

The July 2021 release of QCoDeS.

-----------------
Breaking Changes:
-----------------

- DelegateInstrument takes `parameters` as an optional, keyworded input argument. Any arguments passed as positional arguments after this one will break with this change. (#3089)

----
New:
----

- The default value for `default_parameter_name` in the Loop QCoDeS dataset changed from ``amplitude`` to ``None``.
  The ``amplitude`` value interferes with datasets where one of the setpoint arrays is called `amplitude`. (#3095)

> - Abstract parameters has been added which allow one to create abstract instrument types that are guaranteed 
> to have certain parameters present. (#3125)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Abstract parameters has been added which allow one to create abstract instrument types that have parameters which can be overwritten in a subclass allowing the creation of instruments subclasses with a well-defined api. (#3125)
```

Reviewer: Since the part about checking for abstracparameters got reverted lets rephrase this

Author: sound good, thanks Jens

---------
Improved:
---------

- DelegateInstrument can now have instrument channels. (#3089)
- Decouple measurement name from dataset results table name to allow special characters in the measurement name. (#3185)
- Update the get started document with installing and using spyder and jupyter. (#3179)
- Add ``underlying_instrument`` property to ``_BaseParameter`` and use it in ``call_params_threaded`` instead of ``root_instrument``. (3127)
- Ensure that the per array metadata is also exported to dataarrays and not just datasets. (#3116)
- Use threaded setting from config in doNd functions, and make ``process_params_meas`` public. (#3096)

-----------------
Improved drivers:
-----------------

> - Fixed bug in RTO1000 digitial oscilloscope by forwarding instrument to parameter baseclass. (#3205)

Reviewer: This has no user facing changes and is equivalent to the changes done in other drivers via #3187

- Fix to Rohde & Schwarz ZNB driver for setting npts in CW mode. (#3168)
- Update Keithley 2600 SMU current parameter to be aware of if current compliance is hit during measurement. (#3160)
- Alazar ATS drivers: Fix buffer size for mode='TS' and buffers_per_acquisition > 1. (#3118)

---------------
Under the hood:
---------------

- Add logging to measurement runs in doNd functions (#3206)
- Fix to speed up and properly set experiment in delegate device test (#3199)
- Remove bare wait test due to random failures (#3198)

> - Revert checking of abstract parameters in post init due to unintended side effects (#3197)

Reviewer: This should probably not be included and the pr just mentioned along #3125

Reviewer: This should also include 3217

> - Don't allow metadata tags that are not valid python identifiers (#3192)

Reviewer 2: this should go to "fixed" as users now get a more useful error message if they try to dataset.add_metadata not-allowed stuff)

- Use public interface for instrument in parameters (#3187)
- Fix numpy deprecation for ragged arrays (#3184)
- Add documentation to explain automatic CI (#3169)
- Give threads time to start in tests (#3167)
- Minimum changes to allow type checking to pass with numpy 1.21 (#3150)
- Add customDimensionsFilter to inject custom dim, and inject pythonExecutable (#3143)
- Add export info metadata to dataset (#3135)

> - Export complex numbers to netcdf (#3126)

Reviewer: This is a significant user facing change

Reviewer 2: yes. should be moved to "new"

- Pin typing packages the same way as other test dependancies do (#3123)

> - Do not preserve gh pages branch history (#3122)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not preserve gh pages branch history significantly reducing the size of the full clone of the QCoDeS repository (#3122)
```

- Add typing packages to conda CI (#3115)
- Fix link to pyvisa intersphinx (#3106)
- Compare shapes in ``RunDescriber`` equality method (#3105)

> - Grammer improvements in doNd example notebook (#3104)

Reviewer 3: No need to mention this. This is part of #2990 that should be mentioned as a new feature.
